---
title: 'Reading List'
date: 2022-12-26
permalink: /posts/2022/12/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - books
---

<style>
.mycomment {
  width: 100%;
  padding: 25px;
  background-color: #FFFAF0;
  font-size: 1em;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
}

.snippet {
  width: 100%;
  padding: 25px;
  background-color: #FFFAF0;
  font-size: 1em;
  box-sizing: border-box;
  margin-bottom: 20px;
  font-family: Papyrus;
}

.hidden {
  display: none;
}
</style>


Some books I enjoyed reading.

Technical
------
***Designing Machine Learning Systems: An Iterative Process for Production-Ready Applications*** by Chip Huyen

***Dive into Deep Learning*** by by Aston Zhang, Zachary C. Lipton, Mu Li, Alexander J. Smola

***Deep Learning*** by Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bingio, and Aaron Courville

***Cracking the PM Interview: How to Land a Product Manager Job in Technology (Cracking the Interview & Career)*** by Gayle Laakmann McDowell and Jackie Bavaro <button onclick="myFunction('glm')">Comment</button>

<div id="glm" class="hidden">
<p class="mycomment">I find the best instructions for behavior questions in this book.</p>
</div>

***Ace the Data Science Interview*** by Nick Singh and Kevin Huo

***Transformers for Natural Language Processing*** by Denis Rothman

***Naked Statistics: Stripping the Dread from the Data*** by Charles Wheelan

***Machine Learning System Design Interview*** by Ali Aminian and Alex Xu

***Chip War: The Fight for the World's Most Critical Technology*** by Chris Miller

Biography
------
***A Woman Makes a Plan: Advice for a Lifetime of Adventure, Beauty, and Success*** by Maye Musk <button onclick="myFunction('mm')">Snippet</button>
<div id="mm" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">You don't always have to follow what is expected of you. You can go your own way. I learned this lesson as a child and have used it in adulthood. After I got my dietetics degree and fell pregnant, I couldn't go looking for a job, so I started my private practice. this was frowned upon by my colleagues, as they said I should spend at least five years in a hospital before I start my own practice. I didn't have that option, and I really enjoyed heloing people eat better. That would be the reason I could move around the world and start my nutrition practice all over again, again, and again. Moving is hell, but I guess I'm always willing to try something that could be fun or exciting. <br><br>
If you are doing the same thing ever day of your life, staying in the same job, living in the same place, and you are happy, you can stay that way. <br><br>
If you are restless or unhappy, and want to make a change, start researching what you can do, where you can live, and what job would be the most satisfying for you. Learning about new places and mixing with new people can broaden your mind and make you happier.
</p>
</div>

***Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future*** by Ashlee Vance

***When Breath Becomes Air*** by Paul Kalanithi (Author), Abraham Verghese (Foreword)


Self-help
------
***The Making of a Manager: What to Do When Everyone Looks to You*** by Julie Zhou

***Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead*** by Sheryl Sandberg

***Principles: Life and Work*** by Ray Dalio

***The Subtle Art Of Not Giving a Fck*** by Mark Manson <button onclick="myFunction('mm_2')">Snippet</button>

<div id="mm_2" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">What determines your success isn't, "What do you want to enjoy?" The relevant question is, "What pain do you want to sustain?" The path to happiness is a path full of shitheaps and shame.</p>
<p class="snippet">See: it's a never-ending upward spiral. And if you think at any point you're allowed to stop climbing, I'm afraid you're missing the point. Because the joy is in the climb itself.</p>
</div>

***Nice Girls Don't Get the Corner Office: Unconscious Mistakes Women Make That Sabotage Their Careers (A NICE GIRLS Book)*** by Lois P. Frankel PhD

***Atomic Habits: An Easy & Proven Way to Build Good Habits & Break Bad Ones*** by James Clear <button onclick="myFunction('jc')">Snippet</button>

<div id="jc" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">Variable rewards or not, no habit will stay interesting forever. At some pointsm everyone faces the same challenge on the journey of self-improvement: you have to fall in love with the boredom.</p>
</div>

***Digital Minimalism: Choosing a Focused Life in a Noisy World*** by Cal Newport

***How to Win Friends & Influence People*** by Dale Carnegie <button onclick="myFunction('dc')">Snippet</button>

<div id="dc" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">..., after years of observation and experience, that the highest-paid personnel in engineering are frequently not those who know the most about engineering... But the person who has technical knowledge <em>plus</em> the ability to express ideas, to assume leadership, and to arouse enthusiasm among people--that person is headed for higher earning power.</p>
</div>

***How to Stop Worrying and Start Living*** by Dale Carnegie

***The Fine Art of Small Talk***: How to Start a Conversation, Keep It Going, Build Networking Skills – and Leave a Positive Impression! by Debra Fine

***The First 90 Days: Proven Strategies for Getting Up to Speed Faster and Smarter*** by Michael D. Watkins

***How to Not Die Alone: The Surprising Science That Will Help You Find Love*** by Logan Ury <button onclick="myFunction('lu')">Snippet</button>

<div id="lu" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">Superficial qualities like looks and money matter less for long-term relationship success than people think they do because lust fades and people adapt to their circumstances. The same goes for shared hobbies and similar personalities.<br><br>
A great long-term partner is loyal, kind, and emotionally stable, a person with whom you can grow, make hard decisions, and fight constructively. <br><br>
In the end, a relationship is about what happens when the two of you come together. Focus on the side of you this person brings out, because that's who you'll be whenever you're with them... If you ever find that you’re the most talented person in the room, you need to find another room.
</p>
</div>

Miscellaneous
------

***Steal Like an Artist: 10 Things Nobody Told You About Being Creative*** by Austin Kleon
<button onclick="myFunction('slar')">Snippet</button>

<div id="slar" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">
Every new idea is just a mashup or a remix of one or more previous ideas. <br><br>
I think it’s good to have a lot of projects going at once so you can bounce between them. When you get sick of one project, move over to another, and when you’re sick of that one, move back to the project you left. Practice productive procrastination. <br><br>
If there was a secret formula for becoming known, I would give it to you. But there’s only one not-so-secret formula that I know: Do good work and share it with people. <br><br>
You need to spend some time in another land, among people that do things differently than you. Travel makes the world look new, and when the world looks new, our brains work harder. <br><br>
Find the most talented person in the room, and if it’s not you, go stand next to him. Hang out with him. Try to be helpful. <br><br>
Telling yourself you have all the time in the world, all the money in the world, all the colors in the palette, anything you want—that just kills creativity... Nothing is more paralyzing than the idea of limitless possibilities. The idea that you can do anything is absolutely terrifying. The way to get over creative block is to simply place some constraints on yourself.
</p>
</div>

***Keep Going: 10 Ways to Stay Creative in Good Times and Bad*** by Austin Kleon
<button onclick="myFunction('kg10')">Snippet</button>

<div id="kg10" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">
There are no rules, of course. Life is an art, not a science. Your mileage may vary. Take what you need and leave the rest. Keep going and take care of yourself. I'll do the same. <br><br>
Every Day is Ground Hog Day.
</p>
</div>

Personal Finance
------

***You Are a Badass at Making Money: Master the Mindset of Wealth*** by Jen Sincero <button onclick="myFunction('js')">Snippet</button>

<div id="js" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">A healthy desire for wealth is not greed, it's a desire for life.</p>
</div>

***The Psychology of Money*** by Morgan Housel <button onclick="myFunction('mh')">Snippet</button>

<div id="mh" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">Some people are born into families that encourage educations; others are against it. some are born into flourishing economies encouraging of entrepreneurship; others are born into war and destitution. I want you to be successful, and I want you to earn it. But realize that not all success is due to hard work, and not all poverty is due to laziness. Keep this in mind when judging people, including yourself.</p>
</div>

***Rich Dad Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!*** by Robert T. Kiyosaki <button onclick="myFunction('rtk')">Snippet</button>

<div id="rtk" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">Life pushes all of us around. Some give up. Others fight. A few learn the lesson and move on. They welcome life pushing them around. To these few people, it means they need and want to learn something. They learn and move on. Most quit, and a few like you fight.</p>
<p class="snippet">The world pushes people around not because other people are bullies, but because the individual lacks internal controls and discipline. People who lack internal fortitude often becomes victims of those who have self discipline.</p>
<p class="snippet">The three most important management skills necessary to start your own business are: 1. Management of cash flow. 2. Management of people. 3. Management of personal time.</p>
</div>

***The Simple Path to Wealth: Your road map to financial independence and a rich, free life*** by J.L. Collins (Author), Mr. Money Mustache (Foreword) <button onclick="myFunction('jlc')">Snippet</button>

<div id="jlc" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">Money can buy many things, but nothing more valuable than your freedom.</p>
</div>

***One Up On Wall Street: How To Use What You Already Know To Make Money In The Market*** by Peter Lynch <button onclick="myFunction('pl')">Snippet</button>

<div id="pl" class="hidden">
<p class="snippet">It's also important to be able to make decisions without complete or perfect information. Things are almost never clear on Wall Street, or when they are, then it's too late to profit from them. The scientific mind that needs to know all the data will be thwarted here.</p>
<p class="snippet">When E.F. Hutton talks, everybody is supposed to be listening, but that's just the problem. Everybody ought to be trying to fall asleep. When it comes to predicting the market, the important skill here is not listening, it's snoring. The trick is not to learn to trust your gut feelings, but rather to discipline yourself to ignore them. Stand by your stocks as long as the fundamental story of the company hasn't changed.</p>
</div>

***Freakonomics [Revised and Expanded]: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything*** by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner

To be continued as time goes on...

<script>
function myFunction(elementId) {
  var element = document.getElementById(elementId);
  element.classList.toggle("toggletext");
  element.classList.toggle("hidden");
}
</script>